We're going to play a game with some
bacteria sitting on a grid. At any
[music] point, you can select one of
them, and if the spaces one above and
one to the right are both empty, you can
make it replicate, [music] populating
both of those spots with its children
and vacating the spot where it came
from. The rule is that only one cell is
allowed at each point, so if one of
those two target spots is currently
blocked for a given bacterium, it can't
replicate. But as soon as both of them
clear out, it's free to do so.
>> [music]
>> Here's my puzzle for you. Suppose you
begin with just one cell at the origin,
and your goal is to eventually clear out
this box here, the one with corners at 0
0, 0 3, 3 3, and 3 0. What is the
smallest number of moves required
[music] to do so? To be clear, all 16 of
these lattice points have to end up
empty. This is part of a monthly series
of puzzles that I'm doing in
collaboration with MoMath. The
mathematician Peter Winkler will host a
session there to explain the solution,
[music] and I'll post my own video of
the solution here sometime next month.